I'll be talking about IPL d IPL D is the
interplanetary link data system and
that's the underlying data structure we
use creepy events and a lot of other
projects so what is it
it's the decentralized permanent
membrane for it essentially for a minute
web but as if you in a decentralized web
you need some way of talking about data
the IP and I feel the instance for
interplanetary we call it interplanetary
because you have different needs when
you want to make things in able to eat
your planetary scale latency becomes
insane
and what becomes a bit of an issue okay
so yeah the main thing is you need
latency tolerance and you need to work
in a semi connected where I just can't
network but this is actually also
problem at the planetary scale where
even at the planetary scale not everyone
has a fast interdiction or reliable
internet connection so yep finally why
well we made it because we need it for I
give us so we need an interplanetary
file system really we needed some form
of inode or block system but if you look
at and I note or block they just like I
know it's point I know it's going to
blocks so at the end of the day we
needed an interplanetary deck I say like
some direct data simply very quick so
how did we do this well first of all we
need some way of dealing with latency
and deduplication for deal with networks
so we use thing called constant
addressing you probably aware of
basically concert dressing you have some
like global unique in global a
verifiable name for David currently we
use cryptographic hashes now actually
have these properties however you can
use other schemes because grip coupling
which is actually addition properties
don't necessarily need also just
warnings for crypto like get me out so
first we started out with we called the
Merkel during the Merkel dag is a
minimal Merkel linked data or directed
acyclic graph
basically in this system you would have
objects in the data field in a links
field where the data just includes like
blob in your data links just point other
objects this is what a structure would
look like in this merkel bag there I'm
using Jason from Ava but like you know
PFS we just use binary and it's me
really painful to work with it's like
you have to know what the data is and
you Syrian why is it which means you're
actually serious twice you do serialize
the Merkel Dimmick object then you just
saw has a PI PFS object also the data
section can't point to anything because
only in linked skin so you have a
separate section of wings point of
various things it gets kind of missing
to deal with but that's a so then we
decide you know what nobody need
something more general so we came up
with I peeled dates I filled these
structured so I think higher data
structure structure you're not just
limited to this data section and Link
section it the entire data structure is
self describing so so like you can like
you can see this gets built into the
object so you don't need extra maecenas
it's a versioned so the the pointers
sort of the punch addresses we use in
ideally the reverse and touch them so we
keep upgrading it to upgrade the entire
system the current version is not which
is painful per se the old version the
was painful to it it has passed reversal
so you can say like /i bill the slash
some like addresses and content slash
like through the object and actually
through Alden home to some data so it
makes it easy to work with and it's also
allows us to make an internet of data
basically this allows us to like point
to get objects or III ma and
whatever by just like saying like in the
pointer itself we said like what the
data type is and until you had to decode
it say we can actually point to get
commits from ideal view and even explore
and get trees in I ability and transmit
get objects over like I businesses it's
really quite cool might activate suggest
you take an hour yeah so the key part
here is the self describing function
identifier this is what we call CID and
the components are has has a version the
ability for Matt tells you could have to
understand the data and then a hash
which tells you like where the data is
it's a constant dress an object in the
field II would look something like this
it just has fields and company there's a
pointer to a different
object for example you can actually
recently come up having you connection
resolving paths like this where you pass
through /ip all these some continental
Irish companies like name and get back
Protocol labs so that's how that works
we don't need to go into the details so
I see ideas work team you can look at
this live later and status we have basic
equipments of my PFS because your duties
get we were working on new formats p.m.
et cetera user friendliness and more
senior duties and the next talk will
actually be about research so I won't
cover that now